In this clip we will see how to set up a unified CloudWatch agent and
monitor the logs from EC2 instance in CloudWatch.
I just logged into AWS Management Console.
Click on IAM.
Before installing the CloudWatch agent, let's address some of the prerequisites.
And the important one is creating an IAM role and
attaching it to your EC2 instance.
To your left, click on Roles.
Choose Create role.
Under Choose a use case, select EC2.
Click on Permissions.
Let's search for AmazonEC2RoleforSSM.
This is one of the policies that you must have in your IAM role if you
would want the CloudWatch agent to be integrated with SSM.
Next policy that you need to have is CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy.
Let me search for it and include it as part of the role.
Click Review.
Give your role a name and click on Create role.
A new role with the name CloudWatchAgentRole has been created,
which we are going to associate with are EC2 instance.
Click EC2 from the Admin console.
I'm going to launch a new instance.
Let me choose 2018.03.0 AMI.
I'm going to stick to t2.micro type.
Click on Review and Launch.
Click Launch.
Acknowledge that you have access to the key pair and select Launch Instances.
Select the instance that we just launched.
Under Description, you can see there are no IAM rules being currently linked.
Right‑click the instance, the Instance Settings,
and click on Attach/Replace IAM Role.
Select the IAM role that you just created.
Click Apply.
Click Close.
Let's go back and check the IAM role on the Description tab.
Now you can see that the CloudWatchAgentRole has
been associated with this instance.
I just connected to this EC2 instance using a PuTTY terminal.
I'm going to install a few required packages like zip and unzip.
You can download the CloudWatch agent zip file from this URL.
And I'm going to wget to this URL and download the file.
Let me unzip the file.
I'm going to execute install.sh to install the CloudWatch agent.
The default location is under /opt/aws/amazon‑cloudwatch‑agent.
Our next step is to create a config file,
and you can use the wizard provided by CloudWatch
agent or manually create the file.
I'm going to use the wizard.
This wizard will ask you a series of questions and build a config file
in the JSON format. Let me accept the default choice here as we are
using a Linux instance. We are using the EC2 instance. Root user will
be running the agent in our case.
You may need to change this if you need to select a
different user who will be running the agent.
I would like the StatsD daemon to be turned on.
I'm going to accept the default 8125 port.
I won't accept the default collection and aggregation interval.
Let me choose the default choice to monitor metrics from CollectD. Yes,
I would like to monitor CPU and memory.
I'm going to accept the default choice to monitor the CPU
metrics per core, adding EC2 dimensions, default collection
interval, and the default metrics config.
It lists the default config that you just created using the wizard,
and you have the option either to keep it or to edit it further.
I'm not going to migrate any existing CloudWatch agent, but
I'm going to monitor existing log files.
I'm going to monitor /var/log/messages.
I'm going to provide a log group customized to name.
And then I don't want to monitor any other log files.
And I also don't want to store the config in the SSM Parameter Store.
You can see a new file with the name config.json has been created.
I'm going to use amazon‑cloudwatch‑agent‑ctl utility to start
the agent by giving a link to this file.
It looks like there is a failure when starting the agent.
I believe this instance doesn't come preloaded with collectd utility,
and I'm going to manually install it.
Now that collectd is installed, let us try restarting the
agent The message No csm configuration found is a warning
message and we can safely disregard it.
It looks like our agent is started now. Let's use the status
option and make sure our agent is running.
Let's go back to CloudWatch console and make sure
that the logs are being recorded.
Choose Logs to your left. Choose get started. Click on the
log group messages_Globomantics. Select the log stream
that matches the instance ID.
And you can see the logs from /var/logs/messages are being streamed here.
If you prefer to monitor any other application logs or OS logs all you need to do is to modify the JSON file and restart the service.